friday.md, before:

# Fall 2023 Web Dev Track <br />_Class Schedule and Materials_

Friday 12:30-3pm Section

## (9/1) Week 1

[Week 1 Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1oPhDmiQaYsaT_5Q_dhVZ38aL9e0W7kjv44zCVTZMUic/edit?usp=sharing)

[Optional: Bootstrap Lab](https://github.com/CUNYTechPrep/lab-bootstrap-5.2)

Topics:

- Semester Overview
- About Open Source
- About Hacktoberfest
- Team formation
- Designing Web Apps


Optional Topics:
- Review: HTML & CSS
- Lab Bootstrap 5.2

Assignment:
- Form teams of 2, submit on Slack by next class on 9/8

## (9/8) Week 2


Topics:

- [Contributing to Open Source (slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1iYjr8h3bHjcwrQ6uO-iirW7TGkSNMRhEH1-YswNOc7U/edit?usp=sharing)
	+ Readme and Licenses
	+ Contribution guides
	+ Code of Conduct
	+ Communities
- [React Intro (slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Irg_ScxrLVN425nsA1vn7rZ-vv83G0XsB3jQPodXnfA/edit?usp=sharing)


## (9/15) Week 3


Topics:

- Github Overview and finding projects:
	+ finding projects and labels
	+ issues, pull requests
- Client-Server Communication
    + Parts of a URL
    + Understanding HTTP Request-Response
- `fetch(...)` and Promises
- More React


## (9/22) Week 4

Topics:

- Git and Making contributions
	+ [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)
	+ Rebasing
	+ Squashing
- More `fetch()` and React

## (9/29) Week 5


Topics:

- Fullstack Review: Frontend vs Backend
- About `npm`
- Building a backend with Express.js
    + Routing
    + Route Parameters
    + Query Parameters
    + Body Parameters
- RESTful Routing

## (10/6) Week 6

Topics:

- SDLC (software development lifecycle)
- Design Documents


## (10/13) NO CLASS

## (10/20) Week 7

Topics:

- MVC (_Models-Views-Controllers_) Project Structure
- Using MVC app structure
- Project Starter setup and walkthrough


## (10/27) Week 8


Topics:

- Databases and Data Modeling
- ORM's (Sequelize.js)
- Using Sequelize.js
- Testing (Jest)

## (11/3) Week 9

Topics:

- **_Project Presentations_**
- Implementing Authentication
- Sessions
- Passport.js, Bcrypt

## (11/10) Week 10


Topics:

- Code Reviews
- Software Engineering Best Practices
- [Resource link](http://web.mit.edu/6.005/www/fa16/classes/04-code-review/)

## (11/17) Week 11


Topics:

- Deployment
- _Lab Time: Work on Projects_

## (11/24) NO CLASS

### Thanksgiving Break


## (12/1) Week 12

Topics:

- _Lab Time: Work on Projects_

## (12/8) Week 13

Topics:

- Practice Demo Night Pitches and Demos
- _Lab Time: Work on Projects_

## (12/12 - tentatively) DEMO NIGHT

### Demo Night

- Location: TBD
- Time: TBD

Commit message:

Add week 3 materials and assignments

friday.md, after:

# Fall 2023 Web Dev Track <br />_Class Schedule and Materials_

Friday 12:30-3pm Section

## (9/1) Week 1

[Week 1 Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1oPhDmiQaYsaT_5Q_dhVZ38aL9e0W7kjv44zCVTZMUic/edit?usp=sharing)

[Optional: Bootstrap Lab](https://github.com/CUNYTechPrep/lab-bootstrap-5.2)

Topics:

- Semester Overview
- About Open Source
- About Hacktoberfest
- Team formation
- Designing Web Apps


Optional Topics:
- Review: HTML & CSS
- Lab Bootstrap 5.2

Assignment:
- Form teams of 2, submit on Slack by next class on 9/8

## (9/8) Week 2


Topics:

- [Contributing to Open Source (slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1iYjr8h3bHjcwrQ6uO-iirW7TGkSNMRhEH1-YswNOc7U/edit?usp=sharing)
	+ Readme and Licenses
	+ Contribution guides
	+ Code of Conduct
	+ Communities
- [React Intro (slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Irg_ScxrLVN425nsA1vn7rZ-vv83G0XsB3jQPodXnfA/edit?usp=sharing)


## (9/15) Week 3

[Learn React 1 lab](materials/learn-react-1.md)

Topics:

- [Finding projects and Github Overview (slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rhe_XRWrWPuC-o_QSHg9IpBbx4wKzpAUGTZ-0NupSFU/edit?usp=sharing):
	+ finding projects and labels
	+ issues, pull requests
- More React

Assignments:

- [React Toggle Lab](https://github.com/CUNYTechPrep/lab-react-toggle)
	+ submit a pull request by 9/22
- Look for open source projects to contribute to during [Hacktoberfest](https://hacktoberfest.com/participation/)
	+ read participation rules

## (9/22) Week 4

Topics:

- Git and Making contributions
	+ [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)
	+ Rebasing
	+ Squashing
- Client-Server Communication
    + Parts of a URL
    + Understanding HTTP Request-Response
- `fetch(...)` and Promises


## (9/29) Week 5


Topics:

- Fullstack Review: Frontend vs Backend
- About `npm`
- Building a backend with Express.js
    + Routing
    + Route Parameters
    + Query Parameters
    + Body Parameters
- RESTful Routing

## (10/6) Week 6

Topics:

- SDLC (software development lifecycle)
- Design Documents


## (10/13) NO CLASS

## (10/20) Week 7

Topics:

- MVC (_Models-Views-Controllers_) Project Structure
- Using MVC app structure
- Project Starter setup and walkthrough


## (10/27) Week 8


Topics:

- Databases and Data Modeling
- ORM's (Sequelize.js)
- Using Sequelize.js
- Testing (Jest)

## (11/3) Week 9

Topics:

- **_Project Presentations_**
- Implementing Authentication
- Sessions
- Passport.js, Bcrypt

## (11/10) Week 10


Topics:

- Code Reviews
- Software Engineering Best Practices
- [Resource link](http://web.mit.edu/6.005/www/fa16/classes/04-code-review/)

## (11/17) Week 11


Topics:

- Deployment
- _Lab Time: Work on Projects_

## (11/24) NO CLASS

### Thanksgiving Break


## (12/1) Week 12

Topics:

- _Lab Time: Work on Projects_

## (12/8) Week 13

Topics:

- Practice Demo Night Pitches and Demos
- _Lab Time: Work on Projects_

## (12/12 - tentatively) DEMO NIGHT

### Demo Night

- Location: TBD
- Time: TBD
